# Predicting-Song-Popularity-using-Million-Song-Dataset-
Abstract     The project aims to classify whether a song will be a hit or not, and will it reach Top-Charts based on several music and artist attributes as predictor variables. It will be crucial for us to predict the popularity of a song and we will be using various classification models in our analysis to predict the probability of a particular song reaching the Top Charts.    Music evokes emotions: joy, nostalgia, peacefulness, power, sadness, tenderness, tension and transcendence. It is also used in order to manipulate or influence their own emotional states. Different kind of people experience different sensations and have a different personal perception about certain kinds of music. A hit song is one which appeals to a majority of its listeners. We wanted to build a mathematical relationship between the likelihood of liking a song and explanatory features related to the artist and the song audio. Can the artist and audio features be used as the only predictors needed to classify a certain song as a “Hit” or “Not-Hit”. Our approach included Data Engineering the Million Song Dataset according to our problem needs, addition, removal of certain attributes and missing value imputations. Consequently, we ran various classification models on this final data like KNN, Decision Trees, Random Forest ,Naive Bayes, Logistic Regression and SVM. After completing our analysis and on comparison of our results from each of these models with the help of ROC plots and cross validation results, we find that Random Forest and Logistic Regression (L1 Regularisation) have the maximum accuracy. But for our particular problem we had to place more focus on the “Hit” predictions accuracy. F1 score comparisons of all the models showed L2 Regularised Logistic Regression as our best model. This was primarily due to the fact that Lasso Regression regularises the predictors, removes unimportant variables thereby giving us accurate predictions for “Hit” and “Not-Hit” categories.
